README.md, before:

# Simple README Generator

## Links
Repository: [https://github.com/jdmarty/READMEGenerator](https://github.com/jdmarty/READMEGenerator)

![README Generator screenshot](https://github.com/jdmarty/READMEGenerator/blob/main/assets/terminal.PNG)

## Description

This command line application uses the inquirer npm library to create a series of prompts. The responses to these prompts will be used to generate a basic README file with a professional format.

## Installation

1. Clone or fork the github repository for this project [https://github.com/jdmarty/READMEGenerator](https://github.com/jdmarty/READMEGenerator)
2. Open a command line terminal in the cloned repository
3. Run "npm install" in the terminal to install the required dependencies
4. Run "node index.js" in the terminal to initiate the app

## How to Use

When this app is initialized, you will be greeted with a series of prompts. The answers you give to these prompts will be used to generate a markdown file with basic headers. Answer the prompts in the following manner:

1. Enter a title for your app.
2. Select a license from the provided list
3. Enter a description for your app
4. Enter a number describing the number of steps required in your apps installation process
5. Enter a number describing the number of steps you would like in your usage section
6. Enter test instructions for your app
7. Enter contributing guidelines for your app
8. Enter the name of the GitHub profile associated with this project
9. Enter your email address
10. Enter the number of contributors that you would like to credit
11. Once you have completed these steps, you will be prompted to fill out the number of sections that you described in steps 4, 5, and 10

Once you answer all the prompts, a new README file will be generated in the root directory of the app.


-------------------------------------------------------

# 09 Node.js Homework: Professional README Generator

## Your Task

When creating an open source project on GitHub, it’s important to have a high-quality README for the app. This should include what the app is for, how to use the app, how to install it, how to report issues, and how to make contributions&mdash;this last part increases the likelihood that other developers will contribute to the success of the project. 

You can quickly and easily generate a README file by using a command-line application to generate one. This allows the project creator to devote more time working on the project.

Your task is to create a command-line application that dynamically generates a professional README.md file from a user's input using the [Inquirer package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/inquirer). Review the [Good README Guide](../../01-HTML-Git-CSS/04-Important/Good-README-Guide/README.md) as a reminder of everything that a high-quality, professional README should contain. 

The application will be invoked by using the following command:

```
node index.js
```

Because this application won’t be deployed, you’ll also need to provide a link to a walkthrough video that demonstrates its functionality. Revisit the Screencastify Tutorial in the **prework** as a refresher on how to record video from your computer. You’ll need to submit a link to the video **and** add it to the README of your project.


## User Story

```
AS A developer
I WANT a README generator
SO THAT I can quickly create a professional README for a new project
```

## Acceptance Criteria

```md
GIVEN a command-line application that accepts user input
WHEN I am prompted for information about my application repository
THEN a high-quality, professional README.md is generated with the title of my project and sections entitled Description, Table of Contents, Installation, Usage, License, Contributing, Tests, and Questions
WHEN I enter my project title
THEN this is displayed as the title of the README
WHEN I enter a description, installation instructions, usage information, contribution guidelines, and test instructions
THEN this information is added to the sections of the README entitled Description, Installation, Usage, Contributing, and Tests
WHEN I choose a license for my application from a list of options
THEN a badge for that license is added near the top of the README and a notice is added to the section of the README entitled License that explains which license the application is covered under
WHEN I enter my GitHub username
THEN this is added to the section of the README entitled Questions, with a link to my GitHub profile
WHEN I enter my email address
THEN this is added to the section of the README entitled Questions, with instructions on how to reach me with additional questions
WHEN I click on the links in the Table of Contents
THEN I am taken to the corresponding section of the README
```

## Getting Started

Here are some guidelines to help you get started:

* Create a `.gitignore` file and include `node_modules/` and `.DS_Store/` so that your `node_modules` directory isn't tracked or uploaded to GitHub. Be sure to create your `.gitignore` file before installing any npm dependencies.

* Make sure that your repo includes a `package.json` with the required dependencies. You can create one by running `npm init` when you first set up the project, before installing any dependencies.

* Include a video of the typical user flow through your application. This includes views of the prompts and the responses after their selection.

* Include any other screenshots you deem necessary to help someone who has never been introduced to your application understand the purpose and function of it. This is how you will communicate to potential employers or other developers in the future what you built and why, and to show how it works.


## Grading Requirements

This homework is graded based on the following criteria: 

### Deliverables: 20%

* A sample README generated using the application must be submitted.

* Your GitHub repository containing your application code.

### Walkthrough Video: 27%

* A walkthrough video that demonstrates the functionality of the README generator must be submitted and a link to the video should be included in your README file.

* The walkthrough video must demonstrate how a user would invoke the application from the command line.

* The walkthrough video must demonstrate how a user would enter responses to all of the prompts in the application.

* The walkthrough video must demonstrate a generated README that matches the user input and has a functioning table of contents.

### Technical Acceptance Criteria: 40%

* Satisfies all of the above acceptance criteria plus the following:

	* Uses the [Inquirer package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/inquirer).

### Repository Quality: 13%

* Repository has a unique name.

* Repository follows best practices for file structure and naming conventions.

* Repository follows best practices for class/id naming conventions, indentation, quality comments, etc.

* Repository contains multiple descriptive commit messages.

* Repository contains a high-quality README with description and a link to walkthrough video.


## Review

You are required to submit the following for review:

* A walkthrough video demonstrating the functionality of the application.

* A sample README.md file for a project repository generated using your application.

* The URL of the GitHub repository. Give the repository a unique name and include a README describing the project.

- - -
© 2020 Trilogy Education Services, a 2U, Inc. brand. All Rights Reserved.

Commit message:

added instructional video to readme

README.md, after:

# Simple README Generator

## Links
Repository: [https://github.com/jdmarty/READMEGenerator](https://github.com/jdmarty/READMEGenerator)

![README Generator screenshot](https://github.com/jdmarty/READMEGenerator/blob/main/assets/terminal.PNG)

## Description

This command line application uses the inquirer npm library to create a series of prompts. The responses to these prompts will be used to generate a basic README file with a professional format.

## Installation

1. Clone or fork the github repository for this project [https://github.com/jdmarty/READMEGenerator](https://github.com/jdmarty/READMEGenerator)
2. Open a command line terminal in the cloned repository
3. Run "npm install" in the terminal to install the required dependencies
4. Run "node index.js" in the terminal to initiate the app

## How to Use

[Instructional Video](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ltOuZ-gZ3VnmQ2ujN-x7bdnFIMLbShLT/view?usp=sharing)

When this app is initialized, you will be greeted with a series of prompts. The answers you give to these prompts will be used to generate a markdown file with basic headers. Answer the prompts in the following manner:

1. Enter a title for your app.
2. Select a license from the provided list
3. Enter a description for your app
4. Enter a number describing the number of steps required in your apps installation process
5. Enter a number describing the number of steps you would like in your usage section
6. Enter test instructions for your app
7. Enter contributing guidelines for your app
8. Enter the name of the GitHub profile associated with this project
9. Enter your email address
10. Enter the number of contributors that you would like to credit
11. Once you have completed these steps, you will be prompted to fill out the number of sections that you described in steps 4, 5, and 10

Once you answer all the prompts, a new README file will be generated in the root directory of the app. The name of this filed will be <project name>_README.md


-------------------------------------------------------

# 09 Node.js Homework: Professional README Generator

## Your Task

When creating an open source project on GitHub, it’s important to have a high-quality README for the app. This should include what the app is for, how to use the app, how to install it, how to report issues, and how to make contributions&mdash;this last part increases the likelihood that other developers will contribute to the success of the project. 

You can quickly and easily generate a README file by using a command-line application to generate one. This allows the project creator to devote more time working on the project.

Your task is to create a command-line application that dynamically generates a professional README.md file from a user's input using the [Inquirer package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/inquirer). Review the [Good README Guide](../../01-HTML-Git-CSS/04-Important/Good-README-Guide/README.md) as a reminder of everything that a high-quality, professional README should contain. 

The application will be invoked by using the following command:

```
node index.js
```

Because this application won’t be deployed, you’ll also need to provide a link to a walkthrough video that demonstrates its functionality. Revisit the Screencastify Tutorial in the **prework** as a refresher on how to record video from your computer. You’ll need to submit a link to the video **and** add it to the README of your project.


## User Story

```
AS A developer
I WANT a README generator
SO THAT I can quickly create a professional README for a new project
```

## Acceptance Criteria

```md
GIVEN a command-line application that accepts user input
WHEN I am prompted for information about my application repository
THEN a high-quality, professional README.md is generated with the title of my project and sections entitled Description, Table of Contents, Installation, Usage, License, Contributing, Tests, and Questions
WHEN I enter my project title
THEN this is displayed as the title of the README
WHEN I enter a description, installation instructions, usage information, contribution guidelines, and test instructions
THEN this information is added to the sections of the README entitled Description, Installation, Usage, Contributing, and Tests
WHEN I choose a license for my application from a list of options
THEN a badge for that license is added near the top of the README and a notice is added to the section of the README entitled License that explains which license the application is covered under
WHEN I enter my GitHub username
THEN this is added to the section of the README entitled Questions, with a link to my GitHub profile
WHEN I enter my email address
THEN this is added to the section of the README entitled Questions, with instructions on how to reach me with additional questions
WHEN I click on the links in the Table of Contents
THEN I am taken to the corresponding section of the README
```

## Getting Started

Here are some guidelines to help you get started:

* Create a `.gitignore` file and include `node_modules/` and `.DS_Store/` so that your `node_modules` directory isn't tracked or uploaded to GitHub. Be sure to create your `.gitignore` file before installing any npm dependencies.

* Make sure that your repo includes a `package.json` with the required dependencies. You can create one by running `npm init` when you first set up the project, before installing any dependencies.

* Include a video of the typical user flow through your application. This includes views of the prompts and the responses after their selection.

* Include any other screenshots you deem necessary to help someone who has never been introduced to your application understand the purpose and function of it. This is how you will communicate to potential employers or other developers in the future what you built and why, and to show how it works.


## Grading Requirements

This homework is graded based on the following criteria: 

### Deliverables: 20%

* A sample README generated using the application must be submitted.

* Your GitHub repository containing your application code.

### Walkthrough Video: 27%

* A walkthrough video that demonstrates the functionality of the README generator must be submitted and a link to the video should be included in your README file.

* The walkthrough video must demonstrate how a user would invoke the application from the command line.

* The walkthrough video must demonstrate how a user would enter responses to all of the prompts in the application.

* The walkthrough video must demonstrate a generated README that matches the user input and has a functioning table of contents.

### Technical Acceptance Criteria: 40%

* Satisfies all of the above acceptance criteria plus the following:

	* Uses the [Inquirer package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/inquirer).

### Repository Quality: 13%

* Repository has a unique name.

* Repository follows best practices for file structure and naming conventions.

* Repository follows best practices for class/id naming conventions, indentation, quality comments, etc.

* Repository contains multiple descriptive commit messages.

* Repository contains a high-quality README with description and a link to walkthrough video.


## Review

You are required to submit the following for review:

* A walkthrough video demonstrating the functionality of the application.

* A sample README.md file for a project repository generated using your application.

* The URL of the GitHub repository. Give the repository a unique name and include a README describing the project.

- - -
© 2020 Trilogy Education Services, a 2U, Inc. brand. All Rights Reserved.
